The Project Gutenberg EBook of Der Fliegende Holländer, by Richard Wagner

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Der Fliegende Holländer
       The Flying Dutchman

Author: Richard Wagner

Release Date: April 12, 2010 [EBook #31963]

Language: German

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DER FLIEGENDE HOLLÄNDER ***




Produced by Louise Hope, Juliet Sutherland and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net






[This text uses UTF-8 (Unicode) file encoding. If the apostrophes and
quotation marks in this paragraph appear as garbage, make sure your
text reader’s “character set” or “file encoding” is set to Unicode
(UTF-8). You may also need to change the default font. As a last
resort, use the Latin-1 version of the file instead.

In the original, German and English were printed on facing two-columned
pages. For this e-text, they are shown speech by speech, with differing
indentation. The German libretto alone, without parallel translation,
is available from Project Gutenberg as e-text 27769. The texts are
identical except that a few additional errors have been corrected.

Typographical errors are listed at the end of the e-text. In the
German text, inconsistent labeling of acts and scenes is unchanged.]




                 PRICE 65 CENTS
  Metropolitan Opera Association, Incorporated


                  METROPOLITAN

                     OPERA


                    LIBRETTO

     The Original Italian, French or German
            Libretto with a correct
              English Translation

                   *   *   *

                FLYING DUTCHMAN

                   *   *   *

               FRED RULLMAN, Inc.
       _1425 Broadway, New York 18, N.Y._

    THE ONLY CORRECT AND AUTHORIZED EDITION
          Knabe Piano Used Exclusively

  Printed in U.S.A.




                      THE

                FLYING DUTCHMAN

           (Der Fliegende Hollaender)


                 Romantic Opera
                 In Three Acts


                       By
                 RICHARD WAGNER


                  Published By
      FRED. RULLMAN, INC., NEW YORK, N.Y.




ARGUMENT


ACT I.

A Norwegian brig is driven out of her course on the homeward voyage, and
near the rockbound Norwegian Coast meets with the phantom ship of the
“Flying Dutchman.” Daland, the captain of the Norwegian vessel, enters
into a compact with the “Flying Dutchman” whose identity, however, is
unknown to him, to give him a home and his daughter, Senta, for a wife,
in consideration of the rich treasures stored away in the “Flying
Dutchman’s” ship.


ACT II.

When the curtain rises, a bevy of Norwegian Girls, among whom are
Daland’s daughter, Senta and her nurse Mary, are discovered turning
their spinning wheels and singing a spinning song. A picture of the
“Flying Dutchman” adorns the wall, and Senta, after singing a ballad
sketching in incoherent, passionate strains, a story of the subject of
the picture, solemnly vows that she will become the means of terminating
the torment, to which the “Flying Dutchman” is subjected, and who can
only be saved by a woman unwaveringly constant in her love. During the
confusion which ensues upon this avowal, the father’s arrival is
announced. In the time intervening between this announcement and
Daland’s arrival, Erik, Senta’s lover, pleads for his love, and
endeavors to persuade Senta that her infatuation for a phantom lover
will lead to her irretrievable ruin; but to no avail. Daland arrives
and presents the “Flying Dutchman” to his daughter. Senta accepts him
as her affianced husband.


ACT III.

The curtain rises on the crew of the Norwegian brig singing a frolicking
sailor song, and jesting with a bevy of girls, who bring them
refreshments. The special object of their jest and fun (in which the
girls also join), is the crew of the “Flying Dutchman,” whom they cannot
persuade to join in their merry-making. They finally conclude that the
crew of the neighboring ship must be dead, and the suspicion gains
belief that the “Flying Dutchman” is playing one of his ugly tricks.
The crew of the “Flying Dutchman” sing a fantastic song to which the
Norwegian sailors intently listen, and whose weird words they finally
endeavor to drown in a song of their own. Erik pleads again with Senta,
and the “Flying Dutchman” appears on the scene, and orders his crew to
prepare for immediate departure, thinking Senta had proven as faithless
and inconstant in the love she had vowed him, as the rest of womankind
he had come in contact with. Senta, however, vows that she will be true
to him, and even after the “Flying Dutchman” discloses his identity, she
does not falter in her resolution. “Thine will I be, until death shall
us part!” she passionately exclaims and the curtain falls.




  DRAMATIS PERSONAE


  DALAND                     _A Norwegian Navigator_
  SENTA                               _His Daughter_
  ERIK                                  _A Huntsman_
  MARY                               _Senta’s Nurse_
  THE MATE                      _Of Daland’s Vessel_
  THE FLYING DUTCHMAN.

  _Sailors of the Norwegian Vessel. The Crew of the
  Flying Dutchman. Girls._

  SCENE: The Norwegian Coast




  ERSTER AKT.

      ACT I.


  ERSTER AUFTRITT.

      SCENE I.

  MATROSEN.

  Hohoje! Hohoje! Halloho! u. s. w.

      SAILORS.

      Heigho! Heigho! Halloho!

  DALAND.

  Kein Zweifel! Sieben Meilen fort
  Trieb uns der Sturm vom sichern Port.
  So nah’ dem Ziel nach langer Fahrt,
  War mir der Streich noch aufgespart!
